1. USB 2.0 Cable Structure
There are 4 wires in USB 2.0 cable: VBUS, GND, D+/D-. And thee is a shield layer outside.
VBUS, and GND can be used to power up bus-powered device.

2. USB Main Feature
(1) Hot-plug
Just plug, don't need to restart or install driver. Host and device will negotiate about a proper driver and configuration.
So USB is self-configured. 

(2) Bus-power and Self-power
Devices that consumes not that much power can be USB bus-powered;
Otherwise, the device should be self-powered; 

(3) Host controlled
There always be one, and only one, host that controls all communications on the bus. It doesn't matter how many devices 
are connected.

(4) Vendor ID (VID) and Product ID (PID)
Every USB device have these 2 IDs hardcoded. 
For example, a mouse of the same model, from the same vendor, should have the same VID and PID. 
But they should have different Serial Number.

(5) Device Address
Every device connected to the host has a unique device address, which is assigned by the host when enumerating. 
Default address value is 0 before the host assigns a value. This address will change for next hot-plug.
 
(6) Device Enumeration
During initial negotiation, host will recognize what the device is, what speed, and what driver for this device.

(7) Bus polling/sampling
Both host and device poll the bus to know the bus's current state, and then determine according actions. 
USB doesn't have interrupt. The bus state should stay enough long to wait for next polling.

USB doesn't have an interrupt mechanism at PHY level. It uses polling, which means, if the USB controller (PHY) is busy with something else, 
the bus states will be sampled and stored into a buffer. 
When the USB controller is back, it will check the buffer to see what has happened when it is not checking the bus.

USB has interrupt transfer and interrupt endpoint. 
Though the name has 'interrupt', it is still polling. The interrupt here means its signal's latency is guaranteed.

3. USB Bus Topology
In USB, host and devices are connected to bus according to "tiered-start" topology.
------------------------------------------------------------
Why it is called "tiered-start" while it looks like a tree?
For a hub in tie, its connection will look like a star.
So on a hub, it looks like a star;
But the whole USB net looks like a tree.
------------------------------------------------------------
Up to 127 devices can be connected to bus incluing hubs. 
(1) Device address is 7-bit and address 0 is reserved as initial address for every single newly connected device.
(2) The maximum number of ties, or the maximum number of devices that are allowed to connect in series is 7;
(5) Up to 5 hubs are allowed to be connected in series directly;

4. USB function
Take a USB key board as example, it has a integrated USB hub inside. It keypad function and touch pad function are connected to this hub. 
And it also has a flash drive connected. Here, this keypad actually has 3 USB functions.

5. USB device can normally draw cuurent from the host through VBUS depending on its states. USB has many states,
but only 3 are related to power consumption: 
- Not configured (default state). 
  In this state, up to 100mA for USB 2.0, and 150mA for USB 3.x. 
  It is limited because at this moment, host doesn't know who you are.
- Configured.
  up to 500mA for USB 2.0, and 900mA for USB 3.x.
- Suspended.
  Device is idle and is not in use at this moment. Up to 0.5mA (2.5mA if configured as high power device).

Power Delivery Specifications 2019: allows up to 100W, 5A by 20V. 





